This directory contains some sample programs that use SRWin to create
graphics displays.

To build and run one of these while running on an X terminal, enter
	sr file.sr srwin.o -lX11
	a.out
(The -lX11 parameter may differ depending on your local environment.)


The files included here are:

colors.20
colors.50
colors.100
	- RGB color files used by some of the programs below.  Each entry is a
	  triple: intensity values for red, green, and blue.  Suffixes indicate
	  the numbers of entries in a file.

demo.sr
	- A demonstration of various SRWin functions.  The program opens a
	  window, sets the title, and beeps.  To draw in the window, press:
		a - Arcs
		b - Clear to black
		c - Copy legends
		g - Clear to green
		h - Hide for a while (map/unmap)
		i - Image copying to random locations
		l - Lightning (polyline)
		q - Quit
		s - Stars (pixel)

button.sr
	- A program that implements and tests software buttons.


hello.sr
	- A simple program that prints "Hello world" and draws flying polygons.
	  Several red and blue polygons float and bounce in the window.  A
	  "Hello World" line appears and disappears randomly.

gauss.sr
	- Illustrates the Gauss-Seidel computation.  Usage:

	    gauss Size_of_image Number_of_Workers
	          North_value West_value South_value West_value < Color_file

	  Arguments are optional.  The computation averages the image
	  iteratively.  Hot color stands for value close to 1.0, cold
	  stands for value close to 0.0.

mandel.sr
	- Computes the Mandelbrot set.  Usage:

	    mandel Number_of_Workers Window_Width Window_Height
		   X1 X2 Y1 Y2 Threshold < Color_file

	  Arguments are optional.  The program first shows the color space it
	  using.  The whole image is computed before it is displayed.  See the
	  program for different coloring styles.  An example (a dragon like
	  image):

	    mandel 5 1000 800 -0.74591 -0.74448 0.11196 0.11339 150 < colors.100

qsort.sr
	- Visualization of the quick sort algorithm.  Initially, some random
	  boxes are scattered in the window.  The X coordinate of a box
	  represents its position in the data set.  The Y coordinate represents
	  its value.  The program sorts the data in ascending order using a
	  quicksort algorithm; the first element of each partition is chosen
	  as its pivot.  During sorting, different box colors reflect different
	  SR processes.  Dashed lines show the partitioning.  Simple directions
	  are displayed at the bottom; press "q" to quit at any time.

	Usage:

	  qsort WindowSize Points DotSize

winquad.sr
	- Visualization of quadrature computation.  Press the space bar to
	  start.  The computation involves 4 worker processes computing the
	  integral of a function using an adaptive algorithm.  Each task is
	  divided until it falls into some threshold.  A "done bar" is drawn
	  at the top of the window, indicating that area has been computed.
	  Press "q" to quit.

	Usage:

	  winquad StartXValue EndXValue Delay
